[WIP] Terraform Docs for TF policy (#2690)
hashicorp/web-unified-docs: content/terraform-policy/v0.1.x (beta)/docs/policy/write/plugins.mdx

---
page_title: Write policy plugins
description: >-
  Learn how to write and use policy plugins to extend Terraform policy with custom functions.
---

# Write policy plugins

> Plugins provide a way to extend Terraform policy with additional functions that you can use to simplify your policy authoring experience. You will write Terraform policy plugins in Golang using the [`terraform-policy-plugin-framework`](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-policy-plugin-framework.git) open source library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Plugins provide a way to extend Terraform policy with additional functions that you can use to customize your policy authoring experience. Write Terraform policy plugins in Golang using the [`terraform-policy-plugin-framework`](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-policy-plugin-framework.git) open source library.
```

@include "partials/beta.mdx"

> You must compile Terraform policy plugins and include them in your policy VCS repository before you can use them in your policies. In your policy files, you will use the syntax `core::<functionname>` to refer to functions built into Terraform or Terraform policy, and `plugin::<pluginname>::<functionname>` to refer to functions from plugins that you write.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must compile Terraform policy plugins and include them in your policy VCS repository before you can use them in your policies. In your policy files, use the `core::<functionname>` syntax to refer to functions built into Terraform or Terraform policy. Use the `plugin::<pluginname>::<functionname>` syntax to refer to functions from plugins that you write.
```

## Author a plugin

> To author your own plugins, you will create a new Go package, import the Terraform policy plugin framework library, and then author a `main()` function to register your plugin's functions and Go functions to implement each of them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To author your own plugins, create a new Go package, import the Terraform policy plugin framework library, and then author a `main()` function to register your plugin's functions and Go functions to implement each of them.
```
Maybe do a search for "you will" so we can address the tense.

```shell-session
$ go mod tidy
```

Build the plugin.

```shell-session
$ go build -o ../../bin/example main.go
```

## Use plugins in policies

Specify plugins by using the `plugins {}` block within the `policy {}` block of your `.policy.hcl` files. Refer to [The `policy {}` block](/terraform/policy/reference/policy/policy) for more information.

<CodeBlockConfig filename="policies/example.policy.hcl">

```hcl
policy {
  plugins {
    example = {
      source = "../plugins/bin/example"
    }
    second_example = {
      source = "path/to/second-bin"
    }
  }
}

locals {
  instance_type = plugin::example::trim("foo.t3.micro", "foo.")
}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

The value of the `source` attribute must be a string that is the relative path to a binary in the same VCS repository as your policies. The binary must be a valid Terraform policy Go plugin server. Use the [`terraform-policy-plugin-framework`](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-policy-plugin-framework.git) open source library to ensure your plugin provides the correct interface.

Reference your functions with the `plugin::` prefix in your policies.

## Current limitations

### Function plugins must be precompiled

> In order to execute policies with function plugins on HCP Terraform successfully, Terraform policy assumes the presence of a precompiled binary present with the appropriate directory structure when you configure the policies into a policy set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Requirements

You must precompile function plugins in order to execute policies that include on HCP Terraform. Terraform policy assumes that a precompiled binary is available with the appropriate directory structure when you configure the policies into a policy set.
```
Let's put this after the introduction.
